---
title: VPS Installation
description: How to install PHPNuxBill on your VPS.
---

## VPS Installation Guide

To install PHPNuxBill on your VPS, follow these steps:

1. **Prepare Your VPS**:
   - Ensure your VPS is running a supported operating system (e.g., Ubuntu, CentOS).
   - Update your system packages to the latest versions.
   - Install a web server (e.g., Apache or Nginx), PHP, and MySQL/MariaDB.
   - Make sure to install the required PHP extensions as mentioned in the [Requirements](/getting-started/installation/requirements) section.
   - Set up a firewall to secure your VPS.
   - Obtain and install an SSL certificate for secure connections (Let's Encrypt is a good option).
2. **Download PHPNuxBill**:
   - Download the latest version of PHPNuxBill from the [Release](https://github.com/phpnuxbill/phpnuxbill/releases) or [GitHub](https://github.com/phpnuxbill/phpnuxbill), and upload the ZIP file to your VPS.
   - Download using _WGET_ or _CURL_ or _GIT_ or _COMPOSER_
   - `cd /var/www/html`
     WGET use:
   - `wget https://github.com/hotspotbilling/phpnuxbill/archive/refs/heads/master.zip`
     CURL use:
   - `curl -o https://github.com/hotspotbilling/phpnuxbill/archive/refs/heads/master.zip`
     GIT use:
   - `git clone https://github.com/hotspotbilling/phpnuxbill.git`
     COMPOSER use:
   - `composer create-project hotspotbilling/phpnuxbill .`

- Extract the ZIP file in the desired directory (if you use _WGET_ or _CURL_).
  `unzip *.zip`

3. **Create a Database**:
   - Log in to your MySQL/MariaDB server and create a new database and user for PHPNuxBill.
   - Assign the user to the database with all privileges.
     `mysql -u root -p`
     `CREATE DATABASE phpnuxbill;`
     `CREATE USER 'phpnuxbilluser'@'localhost' IDENTIFIED BY 'your_password';`
     `GRANT ALL PRIVILEGES ON phpnuxbill.* TO 'phpnuxbilluser'@'localhost';`
     `FLUSH PRIVILEGES;`
     `exit;`
4. **Configure Web Server**:
   - For Apache, create a new virtual host configuration file for PHPNuxBill.
   - For Nginx, create a new server block configuration file for PHPNuxBill and ensure to set up the correct root directory and PHP handling.

5. **Set required permissions and privileges**

- `sudo chown -R www-data:www-data /var/www/html/phpnuxbill`
- `sudo chmod -R 755 /var/www/html/phpnuxbill`

6. **Run the Installer**:
   - Open your web browser and navigate to the directory where you extracted PHPNuxBill e.g., [http://yourdomain.com/phpnuxbill](http://yourdomain.com/phpnuxbill).
   - Follow the on-screen installation instructions, providing the database details you created earlier.
7. **Post-Installation**:
   - Complete the installation and log in to your PHPNuxBill admin panel.
   - For security reasons, delete the installation directory from your server.
   - Set up a cron job to handle scheduled tasks for PHPNuxBill.
8. **Configure PHPNuxBill**:
   - Configure your payment gateways, email settings, and other necessary configurations in the PHPNuxBill admin panel.
